## Steering Behaviours

Steering behaviours are a way of breaking down the complex job of steering an agent step-by-step through an environment. They were [originally designed by Craig Reynolds](http://www.red3d.com/cwr/steer/gdc99/) in 1999. Steering behaviours each individually perform a single very simple type of movement, for example:

 - [**Arrive**](/Reference/MonoBehaviours/SteerForArrival) at a position
 - [**Flee**](/Reference/MonoBehaviours/SteerForFlee) away from a position
 - [**Pursue**](/Reference/MonoBehaviours/SteerForPursue) a moving target by predicting it's movements
 - [**Evade**](/Reference/MonoBehaviours/SteerForEvade) a moving target by predicting it's movements
 - [**Wander**](/Reference/Monobehaviours/SteerForWander) randomly around
 - [**Follow**](/Reference/MonoBehaviours/SteerForGoal) a path generated by pathfinding

An agent will usually have several of these behaviours which are combined together to form more complex and natural movements. In Crowds each behaviour has a weight which determines how important it is compared to other behaviours, they are blended together with a weighted average to determine the final steering vector.

For example if an agent wants to move to a point you would [**Follow**](/Reference/MonoBehaviours/SteerForGoal) a path generated by pathfinding to the goal. If there are hostile agents in the environment you could [**Evade**](/Reference/MonoBehaviours/SteerForEvade) those agents, with a separate script controlling the weight of evasion based on how close they are. This would cause the agent to walk straight down the path, when enemies got close it would move slightly aside but still follow the path. If enemies got very close, so that evasion had a higher weight than path following, it would move off the path completely to avoid them.

Crowds implements several basic steering behaviours, see `Reference > Steering Behaviours` for a complete list.

Agents in crowds are not directly driven by the steering behaviours. In a crowded environment this would cause agents to collide with other agents and the movement of the crowd would not look natural at all. Instead Crowds uses Local Avoidance to modify the movements of every agent to avoid the predicted path of every other agent. [Read more about Local Avoidance](/GettingStarted/LocalAvoidance).